---
layout: post
title:  "What is Machine Learning!"
date:   2017-10-14 17:10:21 +0530
categories: Machine Learning
---

### Natural Language Processing:

Natural language processing (NLP) is a field of computer science, artificial intelligence and computational linguistics concerned with the interactions between computers and human (natural) languages, and, in particular, concerned with programming computers to fruitfully process large natural language corpora. Challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition, natural language understanding, natural language generation (frequently from formal, machine-readable logical forms), connecting language and machine perception, dialog systems, or some combination thereof.

Important Terms in NLP:

**Language Model** : A language model is a function, or an algorithm for learning such a function, that captures the salient statistical characteristics of the distribution of sequences of words in a natural language, typically allowing one to make probabilistic predictions of the next word given preceding ones.

**Neural Language Models** : A neural network language model is a language model based on Neural Networks , exploiting their ability to learn distributed representations to reduce the impact of the curse of dimensionality. In the context of learning algorithms, the curse of dimensionality refers to the need for huge numbers of training examples when learning highly complex functions. When the number of input variables increases, the number of required examples can grow exponentially. The curse of dimensionality arises when a huge number of different combinations of values of the input variables must be discriminated from each other, and the learning algorithm needs at least one example per relevant combination of values. In the context of language models, the problem comes from the huge number of possible sequences of words, e.g., with a sequence of 10 words taken from a vocabulary of 100,000 there are 1050 possible sequences...

**Morphology** : In linguistics, morphology is the study of words, how they are formed, and their relationship to other words in the same language.It analyzes the structure of words and parts of words, such as stems, root words, prefixes, and suffixes. Morphology also looks at parts of speech, intonation and stress, and the ways context can change a word's pronunciation and meaning. Morphology differs from morphological typology, which is the classification of languages based on their use of words and lexicology, which is the study of words and how they make up a language's vocabulary.

**Lemmatisation** : Lemmatisation (or lemmatization) in linguistics is the process of grouping together the inflected forms of a word so they can be analysed as a single item, identified by the word's lemma, or dictionary form.
In computational linguistics, lemmatisation is the algorithmic process of determining the lemma of a word based on its intended meaning. Unlike stemming, lemmatisation depends on correctly identifying the intended part of speech and meaning of a word in a sentence, as well as within the larger context surrounding that sentence, such as neighboring sentences or even an entire document. As a result, developing efficient lemmatisation algorithms is an open area of research

